[Music]
coming from the same minds that brought
us the likes of odin sphere and muramasa
grand knight's history is a turn-based
rpg that sees the player having up to
four characters to utilize which can be
one of three different warrior types
you've got knight mage or raja you don't
take on the part of a playable character
though instead you're put into the shoes
of a nameless great knight who chooses
to align himself with one of three
countries union avalon or regress as you
would expect the strategy plays a huge
role in each encounter but the player
only receiving a set amount of ap points
which must be shared across your party
each move or action on the field
requires a certain amount of this ap to
perform so deciding on which moves each
character should make takes more time
than you would think it's fortunate in
true jrpg fashion the enemies patiently
wait for you to plan their device what
makes the system slightly more
interesting is that not only do you
receive experience points from a
defeated enemy but also a small amount
of ap this allows you to chain your
attacks together and help keeps up the
flow and pressure of battle this tactic
is essential and more than comes in
handy throughout the game's runtime but
the whole point of the single player
with its quests and all of the warriors
you can create is to essentially just
level up those warriors and deck them
out with awesome skills and weapons at
the time of its release there was an
online component that allowed you to
take your enemies and challenge players
all over the world this feature
single-handedly made the game even
better but unfortunately it can't be
enjoyed today of course with it coming
from vanillaware grand night's history
is gorgeous the beautiful hand-drawn
sprites and backgrounds really add to
the overall quality of the bin if you're
a fan of their previous efforts this one
is for sure worth picking up
[Music]
undead knights is essentially a hack and
slash bitmap that shares much uncommon
with the likes of god of war and devil
may cry but manages to carve its own
path by introducing some pretty neat
mechanics that help it stand out it all
revolves around a group of knights who
have been granted a second chance at
life but it does come at a cost you're
basically a necromancer who's tasked
with turning your enemies into undead
soldiers and damn does it come in handy
as the sheer amount of targets during
play can make the combat quite intense
to tackle this you've got a selection of
weapons as well as a few special moves
that can hack away at the enemy ranks as
you progress but the necromancy takes
center stage and allows the player to
not only mutate enemies but actually
make them follow instructions as well
from completely decimating someone to
bashing down gates or obstacles there's
a surprising amount of things you can do
with them and when you take all of these
aspects and put them together it results
in some rather compelling gameplay the
adventure is comprised of about 20
chapters which last around 10 to 20
minutes each so depending on your play
style you can expect the game to last
you a good 4 to 8 hours and at first
this might sound quite short but
thankfully you can play through the game
as any of the other characters which
gives you access to further weapons and
skills that help flesh out the gameplay
even further now for a psp game undead
knights takes full advantage of the
system and manages to pull off a large
amount of units on the screen at any
time as well as some pretty detailed
environments on top of it it can get a
tad framy once the action really heats
up but luckily it doesn't really impact
gameplay too much the main hook of the
game just never gets old and will no
doubt make people think twice about
dismissing it as just a meteor clone if
you can find a copy don't hesitate to
pick it up
the psp played host to several games in
the metal beer franchise from the
critically acclaimed peace walker to the
more obscure offerings like the digital
graphic novel fans of the series had
plenty of options including a rather odd
turn-paced card game known as acid now
the sequel sees you taken up the fight
as solid snake with the story being
delivered through in-game cutscenes as
well as comic book like stills with text
boxes it's not exactly thrilling and
you'll soon find yourself a lot more
interested in building a powerful deck
of cards and making strategies than the
actual story itself still the story is
there and it has its twists and turns
but it does feel like a bit of an after
foot like other metal gear games your
goal is to sneak through levels without
alerting enemies you can hide in many
places hang off balcony edges and use
weapons and items to get around various
obstacles like infrared beams and
security cameras even the old car pop
boxes here but the key difference with
the metal gear acid series however is
that most of your moves are carried out
by using cards these cards are collected
by picking them up you can also purchase
cards between stages by spending points
which are earned by doing well in a
stage here you'll find many classic
weapons and items from the metal gear
series even characters have made the
jump such as various bosses like the
fury and psychomantis that have helpful
effects once played in the field now
when it comes to the visual presentation
of acid 2 it can be quite divisive as
when compared to the rather realistic
tape in the original the sort of cell
shaded aesthetic is used for the sequel
instead personally i find them quite
impressive everything is bright and easy
to see and a huge improvement over the
dark environments of the first asset and
to top it off the frame rate manages to
keep up with the action quite well
resulting in an overall pleasant
experience on the ice if you're a fan of
the series or simply looking to jump
into some pretty challenging card
battles metal gear assay 2 is for sure
worth picking up
[Music]
hakuwaki takes place during the
climactic end of the shogun rule japan
teeters on the brink of chaos his
political and supernatural powers
intervene to bring order back to society
as one of five japanese warriors who
each possess the same basic attacks but
unique combos and special abilities the
player must battle against overwhelming
odds to rid japan of its foes and
restore the piece now hakawaki is a
third person hack and slasher that plays
like most games from the genre most
notably the dynasty warriors series
despite reusing the same mechanics of
other titles hakawaki offsets this by
including a comprehensive leveling
system and two different story modes to
help prolong the life of the game for
those who have played any of the dynasty
warrior games you'll instantly be
familiar with the gameplay the player
must battle countless enemies complete
level objectives and defeat the boss to
move on to the next stage the mission
objectives include basic assignments
such as taking out a certain number of
soldiers or assassinating an imperial
captain you've got a string of combos to
help even the odds as well as a power
gauge that slowly fills up as you battle
your enemies and once it's full you can
execute a special attack by pressing a
circle these attacks vary per character
but the end result is a barrage of
flashy sword swings that quickly
devastate everything in your path and of
course power-ups are an essential
component to the gameplay as well
defeated enemies will drop health
replenishers skill enhancers and
equipment to improve your chances
utilizing them at the right time can
sometimes mean the difference between
victory or defeat so holding on to them
is a really good idea by no means does
this game ever reach the heights of
others in the genre but it does present
a competent adventure that is bound to
satisfy fans of musso's
trying to sum up work time fun is a bit
of a tall order this is perhaps one of
the most quirkiest and strangest games
the psp ever received it's easy to see
how comparisons to nintendo's
where madness might be made but they're
really as different as chalk and cheese
while warioware is a collection of
really short games that get faster and
more intense the further you progress
work time fun doesn't do this instead
all of its games are based around
part-time jobs which the original
japanese name of the game loosely
translates to some of the activities are
short some of them take a while and some
simply just have no end to them these
mini-games are very simple and have
rather obvious goals in mind but not
many actually resembling realistic jobs
ranging from trying to stab a stitching
tool between your fingers and increasing
speeds to trying to stop a car in front
of a cliff and chopping wood while
avoiding animals but it does actually
present some real jobs which make for a
somewhat surreal experience one of them
sees you working in a factory line or
sorting baby chickens by gender after
you've done your job you've got to check
and you can then spend this money on
gumball machines to win little trinkets
or extra levels this progression system
once you get the hang of it keeps the
game pretty addicting after all who
doesn't want to dump a bunch of money
into gathering machines and try to get
lucky in general it's just a bunch of
insane mini-games that are pretty
entertaining to check out unfortunately
a lot of the games can admittedly get
quite repetitive and when you couple
that with the simple controls this game
will only appeal to a select number of
people mainly because just the bizarre
nature of it as a whole now this isn't
the kind of game you'll spend hours on
but it is one you'll want to keep on
your psp so you can play it 15 minutes
at a time on the bus or waiting in line
but it's the bizarre so real charm
satirical sense of humor and the pace at
which it dulls out new minigames and
toys that will keep you playing it for
quite some time to come
[Music]
crush is quite possibly one of the most
intuitive and downright addictive puzzle
games you'll ever play the concept is
simple each stage is comprised of the
lost marbles of our protagonist danny
defined once he finds half of the
marbles in the stage he can make his way
to the exit which allows you to then
move on the hook however is that the
stage can be crushed into 2d in a
variety of ways from either side to side
front to back or even from top down
puzzle games aren't well known for their
stories but crush does attempt to weave
a narrative that focuses upon dany's
mental state the cutscenes were a well
deserved break from the gameplay with
interesting characters and humorous
dialogue that helped sell it even
further but it's gameplay where crush
really excels to keep it interesting and
varied there's a number of obstacles
blocks and enemies that litter the world
and do different things depending if the
game is in 2d or 3d it adds a nice layer
of strategy and keeps things from being
boring the end result is an original and
fiendishly difficult game that will push
your mind to and beyond its limits and
if collected marbles isn't enough
there's also two hidden objects in each
stage a puzzle piece and a trophy the
trophy is what really makes up the
game's replay value it unlocks trophy
stages which let you play the real
version of that stage one with a time
limit and a specific number of crashes
you're allowed to use so where does the
game fail well really is a puzzle game
it doesn't it's about as entertaining as
you can get but it is still a puzzle
game that means it's not everyone's cup
of tea and if you went into the genre
before you're not going to be into it
now still i highly recommend this game
and urge you to try it out if it at all
looks interesting to you
[Music]
half minute hero for the psp is a game
that focuses on one thing and one big
thing at that speed sure there's other
aspects to it other than speed but just
about everything you can do in the game
is based around it now the game is
primarily split up into three main modes
which are basically three separate games
entirely the first is hero mode a
role-playing game where you have 30
seconds to stop an evil overlord from
casting a spell of destruction that will
wipe out all of existence this plays out
like an accelerated visions of the rpg's
evolved you wander around a map fighting
enemies at random carrying out tasks for
townspeople eventually building your
level until you're strong enough to take
on the boss and if you run low on time
you can pay a fee to reset the game
clock to 30 seconds the price to do this
actually goes up the more often you use
it so time management is key to your
survival the next mode is evil lord a
real-time strategy game where you play
as one of the evil overlords and you
have to summon monsters to defeat your
enemies within the time limit you get
three different types of units to summon
you've got brutes which deal a lot of
damage nimbles which are very fast and
shooters which can attack from a fire
some enemies also share these types so
it's crucial that you know what to use
against them in order to complete the
level without running out time the third
game on the list is princess a
side-scrolling shooter where you control
a princess with a rapid-fire crossbow
the objective here is to travel across
the stage and blast your way through
enemies and other hazards these separate
modes all add up to a serious amount of
replay value and that's not even
mentioning the one that you can unlock
although each of the modes are great to
play it's hero that steals the show and
becomes a true highlight of the game if
you never got around to it back in the
day half minute hero is still well worth
giving a bill
harvest moon the hero of leaf valley is
an enhanced remake of save the homeland
on the playstation 2. it's got more
endings different town layouts the
ability to get married new characters
more crops and much much more along with
any other non-spin-off harvest moon
titles this game contains no elements of
rpgs and the like in fact the majority
of the gameplay can be summarized into
two separate parts relationships and
financial management the relationships
contribute to one of the biggest parts
of the game that being marriage is the
player you've got to constantly give
presents to the girl you wish to marry
in order to increase the number of
hearts they have towards you as you
would expect this results in some pretty
hilarious and awesome moments throughout
the story and getting hold of some of
the more rarer items really pays off in
interesting ways on the other hand
you've got the financial aspect and this
is where the game comes into its own
this part-time jobs more than a dozen
selection of crops and the money you can
receive for them changes depending on
the season you can upgrade tools upgrade
your house or your ban go mining fishing
and even betting so there's plenty of
ways to plan to maximize your profits
for example simply cooking an egg can
instantly double the profits you get
from selling them now much like the
other entries in the series the game is
separated into days with each of them
taking up to about 15 to 40 minutes to
complete depending on what you do
overall it'll generally last about two
years at that point you can either
restart due to not being able to save
the village or move on to the third year
where you can get married and live
happily ever after however that's not
all you also have a choice of restarting
with upgrades already in place so you
can go for all of the 16 endings this
sheer amount of content and choices and
what you can do will certainly make this
game replayable over and over again
when it comes to side-scrolling shooters
the psp was home to big hitters like
r-type and gradius but one that never
got a fair shake is armored hunter gun
hound dx is a huge fan of mechs and
shooters in general i've always wanted
to give this game a go and i recently
decided to do just that and damn was i
not disappointed the gameplay is best
summed up by the words on the back of
the box eliminate robotic foes with your
gun hound across multiple stages of
mayhem there are a few things done well
and a few things done a bit poorly what
they did well was craft a mostly
competent side-scrolling shooter with
various weapons and an emphasis on
replayability this game is a prime
example of trial and error rewarding you
for learning enemy attack patterns and
exploiting them and this type of
difficulty is right up my street as it's
always so satisfying being able to make
it through a level without taking a
single hit that it gives the incentive
to players who might be finding it tough
to work that bit harder naturally
there's a ton of power ups and special
items that make the ordeal a bit more
manageable admittedly the game is rather
short and will only last most players
around 3 hours but with a multitude of
macs unlockables and different
difficulty settings it's quite easy to
make it last a bit longer than its
average playtime now when you take into
consideration the actual age of the
playstation portable of course the
visuals aren't going to blow you away
the first time and more importantly
being on handheld the special effects
and impressive sprites really make up
for any shortcomings in this department
but if there's one aspect that needs a
special shot it has to be the soundtrack
which pumps out some serious tunes for
you to shred enemies to for those
looking to pick it up for themselves a
new vision is actually available on the
pc as well which makes it easier than
ever to enjoy this classic today
[Music]
the psp was no stranger to quality rpgs
but the likes of final fantasy tactics
and persona 3 for example any game had a
lot to live up to when it came to the
competition and one that valiantly did
so but unfortunately didn't quite make
as much of an impact as it deserved has
to be e7 like most entries in the series
it starts the famous adventurer adal the
red who at this point in his career is a
bit older than the previous games but is
also well known as a famous adventurer
he sets off with a friend as they travel
to the kingdom of altagro seeking a new
adventure in true rpg fashion it's not
long until everything goes to [__] and
you find yourself entangled within a
plot that involves the fate of the
entire kingdom even if it may be a bit
tropey the gameplay more than makes up
for any shortcomings in the narrative at
its core e7 is an action rpg with a
combat system which is presented in real
time naturally you get to perform a wide
range of abilities and spells that make
dealing with the generous amount of
enemies that litter the land all the
more easier progression is handled
extremely well with the player having
plenty of options when it comes to
growing their character and doing so
soon becomes essential to tackling the
far more challenging bosses which are
most definitely one of the true
highlights of the game you can tell
special attention went into each of them
with bosses getting varied and special
attacks and as you progress further into
the game certain boss fights will start
becoming multi-phase affairs that push
the quality even further you can also
expect several rpg staples such as
equipping items shopping in the towns
and running quests for npcs but the fast
and fluid combat is what really makes
the gameplay shine well that does it for
today's video keep an eye out for part
two as that will be coming up soon so
don't forget to subscribe and hit that
bell to get notified you can follow me
on all of the socials to stay up to date
and also join our growing community on
discord to meet many of the like-minded
gamers to continue the conversation with
i'd like to give a special shout out to
my patreon supporters rhino skill jim
nano steve richard amy daniel paul quinn
dio alex simon and paddy j for their
continued support that helps make these
videos possible if you're interested in
joining the discord or supporting the
channel through patreon you'll find all
of these links in the description as
always thanks for taking the time to
watch the video i'll see you in the next
one
[Music]
just